---
title: 'Spaced repetition'
pubDate: 2024-12-22 
description: 'Some thoughts I had while reading A Mind For Numbers by Dr. Oakley'
author: 'Rodrigue GASPARD'
tags: ["thoughts", "programming"]
---
While reading the excellent *A Mind for Numbers : How To Excel In Math and Science* by [Barbara Oakley](https://barbaraoakley.com/books/a-mind-for-numbers/), I remembered the time when I used [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) for spaced repetition learning (I mainly used it to memorize capital and simple facts about every country, or learn Japanese kanjis). But I always had trouble with the software itself on Arch, issues related to not recognizing my custom keyboard layout, or graphical glitchs. Also, most of the community flashcards decks were too big for my taste, and it was a bit of a challenge to do several decks revisions in a day. As Dr. Oakley said best, spaced repetitions works best when mixing disciplines, doing short revisions for a particular problem or field and then switching to another one, in order to get "more bang for you buck".

## The limitations of flashcards programs

To the best of my knowledge, while flashcards works great to memorize facts, they do not offer problems to solve (for example, small equations or mathematical problems to solve, or programming questions). Well, they **do** offer then in some decks, but I would imagine I would just memorize the answers instead of actually thinking about the problem If I encountered them several times in a row.

## A different kind of daily memorization app

I want to start a new project, very heavily inspired by Anki, but that shuffles several decks together to get a *pot-pourri* of problems every day. I want to support flashcards with audio/video/pictures, with the data in a simple Markdown format, while also generating new problems, maybe mixing several problems in one? I do not know yet how to accomplish this, hooking up a LLM might be the easiest (and dirtiest) solution there, hopefully I can manage something with only local Markdown files.
